



Network Working Group                                         D. Venhoek
Internet-Draft                                          Tweede Golf B.V.
Intended status: Informational                          15 December 2023
Expires: 17 June 2024


                   NTS extensions for enabling pools
                         draft-nts-pool-latest

Abstract

   The aim of this document is to describe a proof of concept system for
   NTS pools that are able to be used by clients without any knowledge
   beyond plain NTS.  The work here focusses purely on creating an
   intermediate nts-ke server that can be configured with the addresses
   of multiple downstream servers and distribute load between them.  The
   parts of pool operation dealing with managing the list of servers are
   left out of scope for this work.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at https://pendulum-
   project.github.io/nts-pool-draft/draft-nts-pool.html.  Status
   information for this document may be found at
   https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-nts-pool/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/pendulum-project/nts-pool-draft.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 17 June 2024.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2023 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  General pool architecture
   4.  Client facilities for pools
   5.  New NTS record types
     5.1.  Keep Alive
     5.2.  Supported Algorithm List
     5.3.  Fixed Key Request
     5.4.  NTP Server Deny
   6.  Security Considerations
   7.  IANA Considerations
   8.  Normative References
   Acknowledgments
   Author's Address

1.  Introduction

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   Throughout the text, the terms client and server will refer to those
   roles in an NTS Key Exchange session as specified in [RFC8915].

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

3.  General pool architecture

   We propose a pool model where the pool is providing an NTS Key
   Exchange service to the outside world.  This allows the pool to
   terminate the TLS connection and avoids having to distribute
   certificates to all downstream time servers.  However, that also
   implies that the pool needs to extract the keys and somehow get valid
   cookies for the selected downstream time server.

   To solve this, we ask downstream servers to provide an extension of
   the NTS Key Exchange protocol that allows the pool to directly
   communicate the keys to the downstream server, instead of having the
   downstream server extract this from the TLS Session.  The explicit
   communication of keys allows the pool to do the extraction from the
   TLS server whilst remaining oblivious to the cookie format of the
   downstream server.

4.  Client facilities for pools

5.  New NTS record types

5.1.  Keep Alive

   Record Type Number: To be assigned by IANA (draft implementations:
   0x4000) Critical bit: 0

   Indicates a desire to keep the TLS connection active for more than
   one message exchange.  This can be used by a Pool to reuse
   connections to downstream NTS-KE servers multiple times, reducing
   load on both the pool and downstream servers.

   Client MUST send this record with a 0 sized body.  Client MUST NOT
   use Keep Alive unless the request contains a record type allowing the
   use of Keep Alive.  Within this specification, that is limited to the
   Supported Protocol List and Fixed Key Request records.  A server
   SHOULD ignore any body for the Keep Alive record.

   When supported by server and allowed for the request in question, the
   server MUST include a Keep Alive record with 0 sized body in the
   response and keep the TLS connection active after the response to
   handle further requests from the client.  A client SHOULD ignore any
   body for the Keep Alive record.

   When included in the request or response, the client respectively
   server MAY, contrary to the requirements in [RFC8915], send another
   request or response.  Any TLS "close_notify" SHALL be sent only after
   the last reqeust or response respectively to use the connection.

5.2.  Supported Algorithm List

   Record Type Number: To be assigned by IANA (draft implementations:
   0x4001) Critical bit: 1

   This record can be used by a pool to query downstream server about
   which AEAD algorithms the downstream server supports.

   Client MUST send with no body.  Clients MAY use Keep Alive in
   combination with this record.  A request with this record SHOULD NOT
   include a "Next Protocol Negotiation", "AEAD Algorithm Negotiation"
   or "Fixed Key Request" record.

   Server MUST ignore any client body sent, and MUST send in response a
   Supported Algorithm List record with as data a list of tuples of two
   16 bit integers, the first giving a algorithm ID for the AEAD and the
   second giving the length of the key for that algorithm ID.

   When included, the server MUST NOT negotiate a next protocol, aead
   algorithm or keys for this request.

5.3.  Fixed Key Request

   Record Type Number: To be assigned by IANA (draft implementations:
   0x4002) Critical Bit: 1

   When client is properly authenticated, the server SHOULD not perform
   Key Extraction for but rather use the keys provided by the client in
   the extension field.  This allows a pool to do key negotiation on
   behalve of its users with the downstream NTS-KE servers, even though
   it terminates the TLS connection.

   When used, the client MUST provide an AEAD Algorithm Negotiation
   record with precisely one algorithm.  The data in the record must
   have length twice the key length N of the AEAD algorithm in the AEAD
   Algorithm Negotiation record.  The first N bytes MUST be the C2S Key
   and the second set of N bytes MUST be the S2C key.  Clients MAY use
   Keep Alive in combination with this record.

   MUST not be sent by a server.  Server SHOULD treat extension field as
   unknown when sent by any client not authorized to make fixed key
   requests.

5.4.  NTP Server Deny

   Record Type Number: To be assigned by IANA (draft implementations:
   0x4003) Critical Bit: 0

   When provided by a client, indicates a desire to connect to a server
   other than the server specified in the record.  This can be used to
   ensure a client receives independent NTP servers from one NTS Key
   Exchange server without having to potentially try multiple times to
   get a new server.

   A client MAY send multiple of these records if desired.  The data in
   the record SHOULD match that given through an NTPv4 Server
   Negotiation received in an earlier request from the same NTS Key
   Exchange server.

   MUST not be sent by a server.  Server MAY at its discretion ignore
   the request from the client and still provide the given server in an
   NTPv4 Server Negotiation record.

6.  Security Considerations

   TODO Security

7.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

8.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

   [RFC8915]  Franke, D., Sibold, D., Teichel, K., Dansarie, M., and R.
              Sundblad, "Network Time Security for the Network Time
              Protocol", RFC 8915, DOI 10.17487/RFC8915, September 2020,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8915>.

Acknowledgments

   TODO acknowledge.

Author's Address

   David Venhoek
   Tweede Golf B.V.
   Email: david@tweedegolf.com
